---
title: "Find your path and stay open to change" description: "A short story of
an experience I had in film school and how it informed my approach moving
forward." pubDatetime: 2025-01-25T13:39:00-7:00 isDraft: true
---

I have had a bit of a strange career history. 

## Taking an Alternate Route

In community college, I studied computer science and photography before getting
hooked on visual storytelling. I decided I wanted to be a cinematographer. When
film school rejected me initially, I took an alternate route: move to LA and try
to make it in the film industry anyway.

I arrived in LA with restaurant-job savings as my safety net. Like many film
hopefuls, I applied to unpaid Craigslist gigs. My first real break was as a
production assistant on a feature film. It paid $75 a week – barely enough for
gas. During my first week on set, I connected with the lighting crew and asked
to shadow them. The Best Boy Electric took me under his wing, and suddenly I
found my niche.

Over the next year, I built experience working on small films, commercials, and
Hallmark movies (which I loved—efficient, predictable, and well-run). I
reapplied to film school and got in.

## Finding My Focus

When I started film school, I had an advantage: actual set experience and, more
importantly, clarity about what I wanted. I'd worked lighting and grip
departments, and I wanted to be a cinematographer. Because I had a clear focus,
I found more opportunities.

Everyone wanted to direct or write. Few people deliberately chose paths like
sound, cinematography, or the dozen other essential roles. Having a specific
focus helped me find consistent work in the area where I had interest, rather
than bouncing between whatever roles others thought I should fill.

In film school, those without clear goals often got typecast into whatever roles
others thought they fit best. If your passion is directing but you keep getting
asked to do other roles (even valuable ones) how much directing experience will
you actually get? If you don't assert what you want, someone else will make
those choices for you.

This principle carried over into software engineering, where I've now worked for
12+ years. In one-on-ones, I ask folks what they want to focus on.
Infrastructure? AI? Front-end? A specific language? Management track? It's hard
to answer and, I think, essential. 

## When Your Path Changes

Ironically, my own "what I want" has changed dramatically over time. I'm not a
cinematographer. How did that happen?

My senior year, I interned at Light Iron, a post-production startup specializing
in color correction. I told them I wanted to become a colorist, who partners
with a cinematographer to polish the film's finished look. They started training
me on the standard path – first becoming a Conform Artist (essentially a
colorist's assistant who assembles the pieces for color work).

As I started training, I hit a snag: I found it boring. It's challenging work –
like an intricate puzzle – but it just didn't click for me. Meanwhile, I'd been
helping their CTO with network racks, computer fixes, and firmware flashing. I
found myself drawn to those tasks.

I approached the CTO and simply said, "I want to work with you and do more of
what you do." Thankfully, he agreed. Around this time, I'd been reading Hacker
News and getting increasingly interested in tech. His mentorship changed my
trajectory completely.

Know what you want – it gives you direction and focus – but stay open to
changing your mind as you grow. Sometimes the path you start on leads somewhere
unexpected but better suited to who you're becoming. It's okay to change course,
especially if you're excited or curious about the new area and intentional.


#film #career