---
title: "Know where you're going (and be open to change)" 
description: "How having clear direction—while remaining open to change—shaped my journey from film school to software engineering, and why both focus and flexibility matter in any career."
pubDatetime: 2025-02-20T22:30:00-8:00 
isDraft: false
tags:
- film 
- career 
- software
---

I have had a bit of a strange career history. Looking back, I think it's a story about the importance of having clear direction, and being willing to change course when something better comes along.

## Taking an Alternate Route

In community college, I studied computer science and photography before getting
hooked on visual storytelling. I decided I wanted to be a cinematographer. When
my film school applications didn’t work out, I took
an alternate route: I moved to LA and tried to make it in the film industry
anyway.

I arrived in LA with restaurant-job savings as my safety net. Like many film
hopefuls, I applied to unpaid Craigslist gigs. My first real break was as a
production assistant on a feature film. It paid $75 a week — barely enough for
gas. During my first week on set, I connected with the lighting crew and asked
to shadow them. The Best Boy Electric took me under his wing, and suddenly I
found my niche.

Over the next year, I built experience working on small films, commercials, and
Hallmark movies (which I loved: efficient, predictable, and well-run). I
reapplied to film school and got in.

## Finding My Focus

When I started film school, I had an advantage: set experience and, more
importantly, clarity about what I wanted. I'd worked in the lighting and grip
departments, and I wanted to be a cinematographer. Because I had a clear focus,
I found more opportunities.

Everyone wanted to direct or write. Few people deliberately chose paths like
sound, cinematography, or the dozen other essential roles. Having a specific
focus helped me find consistent work in the area where I had interest, rather
than bouncing between whatever roles others thought I should fill.

In film school, those without clear goals often got typecast into whatever roles
others thought they fit best. If your passion is directing but you keep getting
asked to do other roles (even valuable ones), how much directing experience will
you actually get? If you don't assert what you want, someone else will make
those choices for you.

This principle carried over into software engineering, where I've now worked for
12+ years. In one-on-ones, I ask folks what they want to focus on:
infrastructure, AI, front-end, a specific language, or the management track.
It's hard to answer, but I think it's essential.


## When Your Path Changes

Ironically, my own "what I want" has changed dramatically over time. While
having a direction is important, sometimes the best opportunities come when you
allow yourself to pivot. I'm not a cinematographer. What happened? 

My senior year, I interned at Light Iron, a post-production startup specializing
in color correction. I told them I wanted to become a colorist, who partners
with a cinematographer to polish the film's finished look. They started training
me on the standard path—first becoming a Conform Artist (essentially a
colorist's assistant who assembles the pieces for color work).

As I started training, I hit a snag: I found it boring. It's challenging work –
like an intricate puzzle – but it just didn't click for me. Meanwhile, I'd been
helping their CTO with network racks, computer fixes, and firmware flashing. I
found myself drawn to those tasks. Around this time, I'd been reading Hacker
News and getting increasingly interested in tech. 

I approached the CTO and simply said, "I want to work with you and do more of
what you do." Thankfully, he agreed. His mentorship changed my
trajectory completely.

## Learning to Embrace Change

Know what you want — it gives you direction and focus — but stay open to
changing your mind as you grow. Sometimes the path you start on leads somewhere
unexpected but more fulfilling. It's okay to change course, especially when you
find yourself genuinely excited about a new direction.

The key is intentionality: whether you're staying the course or pivoting to
something new, make it a conscious choice rather than letting circumstances or
others choose for you. My journey from cinematography to software engineering
wasn't a failure of my original plan — it was a deliberate choice to follow my
growing curiosity and excitement about technology.

Your career path doesn't have to be a straight line. What matters is staying
true to your interests while remaining open to unexpected opportunities along
the way.
